docs/results_files.md, before:

# Result files
Poirot produces a lot of intermediate and result files but only files defined in [`output_files.json`](https://github.com/clinical-genomics-uppsala/poirot_rd_wgs/blob/main/config/output_list.json) are kept, the rest are temporary and will be deleted when not needed by any other rules in the pipeline. Please use the `--no-temp` snakemake option when running the pipeline to retain all files generated by the pipeline, or edit the output_files.json to retain a retain the files required.


## Files
Successful execution of the pipeline result in the the following output files located in `Results/`-folder:

| File | Format |Description |
|---|---|---|
multiqc_DNA.html| html  | Aggregated QC values for entire sequence run, open in browser|
{sample}/{sample}_N.cram | cram | Sorted and deduplicated CRAM alignement file |
{sample}/{sample}_N.cram.crai | crai |  Index for the CRAM alignment file | 
{sample}/{sample}_snv_indels.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed deepvariant VCF file  |
{sample}/{sample}_snv_indels.vcf.gz.tbi | tbi | Index for the compressed deepvariant VCF file  |
{sample}/{sample}.hard-filtered.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed deepvariant VCF file containing rare variants (filtered on VEP annoatoon max_af > 10%)  |
{sample}/{sample}.hard-filtered.vcf.gz.tbi | tbi | Index for the compressed deepvariant VCF file containing rare variants  |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnv.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Filtered CNVpytor VCF file |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Unfiltered CNVpytor VCF file |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor_filtered.aed| aed | Filtered CNVpytor calls in aed format (Affymetrix Extensible Data format, tab delimited) |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor.aed | aed | CNVpytor calls in aed format (Affymetrix Extensible Data format, tab delimited) |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.manta_diploidSV.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed VCF for SV calls called by Manta |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.svdb_merged.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed VCF containg the merge of SV and CNV calls from Manta and CNVpytor  |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnv_sv.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | A filtered version of the compressed VCF containing the merge of SV and CNV calls from Manta and CNVpytor |
{sample}/{sample}.upd_regions.bed | bed | Bed file of UPD regions called from a Trio VCF. Sample in this case is the sample id of the proband in the trio.  |
{sample}/{sample}.contamination.html | html | Contamination report from haplocheck program |
{sample}/{sample}.expansionhunter_stranger.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed VCF with repeat expansions called by Expansion Hunter and annotated with stranger |
{sample}/{sample}.expansionhunter_stranger.bed | bed |  Bed file with the repeat expansions called by Expansion Hunter and annotated with stranger |
{sample}/expansionhunter_reviewer | png  | Directory of png image files generated by REViewer|
{sample}/{sample}.coverage_analysis.xlsx | excel  | Excel file summarising the depth of covearage in genes in various gene panels |
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_charts.pdf | pdf | SMNCopyNumberCaller charts visualising the CN calls and read depth|
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_caller.tsv | tsv | SMNCopyNumberCaller results |
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_caller.json | json | SMNCopyNumberCaller results containing additional information not found in the SMNCopyNumberCaller tsv results   |
{sample}/automap/{sample}.HomRegions.tsv | tsv |  Regions of homozygosity  detected by AutoMap |
{sample}/automap/{sample}.HomRegions.pdf | pdf  | Visualisation of ROH regions detected by AutoMap |
{sample}/peddy/peddy.html | html  | Peddy results visualised to be open in browser |


## MultiQC report
Poirot produces a **[MultiQC](https://github.com/ewels/MultiQC)**-report for the entire sequencing run to enable easier QC tracking. The report starts with a general statistics table showing the most important QC-values followed by additional QC data and diagrams. The entire MultiQC html-file is interactive and you can filter, highlight, hide or export data using the ToolBox at the right edge of the report.

<br />

The report is configured based on a MultiQC config file. 

/// details | Expand to view current MultiQC config.yaml
```yaml
{% include "includes/multiqc_config.yaml" %}
```
///

The report contain qc information derived from the following programs:



### General Statistics
The general statistics table are ordered based on the sample order in Illumina `SampleSheet.csv` file used during sequencing, this is done by renaming the samples in two steps using the script `extract_samples_info.py`. To toggle between "Sample Order" and "Sample Name" use the buttons just above General Stats header.


<br />

| Column Name | Origin | Comment | 
| --- | --- | --- |
| M Reads | [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html)  | Total number of reads in the input nam fole |
| % Mapped| [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | Percent reads mapped, anywhere in the reference (no design file used) |
| % Proper pairs| [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | |
| Average Quality | [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | Ratio between sum of base quality over total length. Only reads on target (`config[reference][design_bed]`) |
| Median | [Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Median Coverage over coding exon in design (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) |
| >= 30X | [Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Fraction of coding exons (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) with coverage over 30x |
| >=50X |[Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Fraction of coding exons (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) with coverage over 50x |
| Bases on Target | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | Bases inside the capture design (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) |
| Fold80 |[Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | The fold over-coverage necessary to raise 80% of bases in "non-zero-cvg" targets to the mean coverage level in those targets (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) |
| % Dups | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) DuplicationMetrics |  |
| Mean Insert Size | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) InsertSizeMetrics |  |
| Target Bases with zero coverage [%] | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | Percent target (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) bases with 0 coverage |



## Coverage analysis
 It is important to know that the information is actually there when trying to draw clinically relevant conclusions from the data. This is done by a gene coverage analysis which results in an excel file with a tab for each gene panel that is of interest, 

### Example of some data from tabs in {sample_id}.coverage_analysis.xlsx
#### Overview
{sample_id}					
Bed-file from UCSC: refseq_select_mane_20230828.bed					

<br />
Processing date: January 05, 2025					

<br />
Created by: 				Valid from: 	
Signed by: 				Document nr: 	

<br />
DNAnr	Avg. coverage (x)	Duplicationlevel ()%)	10x (%)	20x (%)	30x (%)

{sample_id}	60.07	3.6	99.6	98.8	94.8
                    
<br />
Number of regions not covered by at least 10x: 					
1177					

<br />
Sheets:					
Positions with coverage lower than 10x					
Average coverage of all regions in bed					
BRCA

CADASIL

EBS

EDS					

#### Positions with coverage lower than 10x
Mosdepth coverage analysis				
                
<br />
Sample: {sample_id}				

<br />
Gene regions with coverage lower than 10x.				
Region Name	Chr	Start	Stop	Mean Coverage

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69438	69439	10

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69439	69441	9

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69441	69442	8

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69442	69444	7

#### Average coverage of all regions in bed
Average coverage and coverage breadth per gene					

<br />
Sample: {sample_id}					

<br />
Averge coverage and coverage breadth of each gene in exon-bedfile					
Gene	Transcript	Avg coverage	10x	20x	30x

A1BG	NM_130786.4	40,6	100	96,6	80,7

A1CF	NM_014576.4	59,28	100	100	97,6

A2M	    NM_000014.6	62,82	100	100	99,7

A2ML1	NM_144670.6	50,66	100	100	98,8

A3GALT2	NM_001080438.1	35,55	100	100	78,4

#### EBS
Coverage analysis per gene for EBS gene panel					

<br />
Sample: {sample_id}					

<br />
Average coverage and coverage breadth of genes in EBS gene panel.					
Gene	Transcript	Avg coverage	10x	20x	30x

CAST	NM_001750.7	63,2	100	100	99,6

CD151	NM_004357.5	43,89	100	100	98,2

<br />
Regions of exons that are covered below 10x.					
Gene name_transcript_exon	Chr	Start	Stop	Coverage (x)	
COL7A1_NM_000094.4_[109]	chr3	48567605	48567606	10	

<br />

Commit message:

fix: melt with local .sif file

docs/results_files.md, after:

# Result files
Poirot produces a lot of intermediate and result files but only files defined in [`output_files.json`](https://github.com/clinical-genomics-uppsala/poirot_rd_wgs/blob/main/config/output_list.json) are kept, the rest are temporary and will be deleted when not needed by any other rules in the pipeline. Please use the `--no-temp` snakemake option when running the pipeline to retain all files generated by the pipeline, or edit the output_files.json to retain a retain the files required.


## Files
Successful execution of the pipeline result in the the following output files located in `Results/`-folder:

| File | Format |Description |
|---|---|---|
multiqc_DNA.html| html  | Aggregated QC values for entire sequence run, open in browser|
{sample}/{sample}_N.cram | cram | Sorted and deduplicated CRAM alignement file |
{sample}/{sample}_N.cram.crai | crai |  Index for the CRAM alignment file | 
{sample}/{sample}_snv_indels.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed deepvariant VCF file  |
{sample}/{sample}_snv_indels.vcf.gz.tbi | tbi | Index for the compressed deepvariant VCF file  |
{sample}/{sample}.contamination.html | html | Contamination report from haplocheck program |
{sample}/{sample}.coverage_analysis.xlsx | excel  | Excel file summarising the depth of covearage in genes in various gene panels |
{sample}/{sample}.expansionhunter_stranger.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed VCF with repeat expansions called by Expansion Hunter and annotated with stranger |
{sample}/{sample}.expansionhunter_stranger.bed | bed |  Bed file with the repeat expansions called by Expansion Hunter and annotated with stranger |
{sample}/{sample}.hard-filtered.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed deepvariant VCF file containing rare variants (filtered on VEP annotation max_af > 10%)  |
{sample}/{sample}.hard-filtered.vcf.gz.tbi | tbi | Index for the compressed deepvariant VCF file containing rare variants  |
{sample}/{sample}.upd_regions.bed | bed | Bed file of UPD regions called from a Trio VCF. Sample in this case is the sample id of the proband in the trio.  |
{sample}/automap/{sample}.HomRegions.tsv | tsv |  Regions of homozygosity  detected by AutoMap |
{sample}/automap/{sample}.HomRegions.pdf | pdf  | Visualisation of ROH regions detected by AutoMap |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnv.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Filtered CNVpytor VCF file |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Unfiltered CNVpytor VCF file |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor_filtered.aed| aed | Filtered CNVpytor calls in aed format (Affymetrix Extensible Data format, tab delimited) |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnvpytor.aed | aed | CNVpytor calls in aed format (Affymetrix Extensible Data format, tab delimited) |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.manta_diploidSV.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed VCF for SV calls called by Manta |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.svdb_merged.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | Compressed VCF containg the merge of SV and CNV calls from Manta and CNVpytor  |
{sample}/cnv_sv/{sample}.cnv_sv.vcf.gz | vcf.gz | A filtered version of the compressed VCF containing the merge of SV and CNV calls from Manta and CNVpytor |
{sample}/expansionhunter_reviewer | png  | Directory of png image files generated by REViewer |
{sample}/mobile_elements/{sample}.melt_ALU.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed MELT VCF-file with ALU-insertion |
{sample}/mobile_elements/{sample}.melt_HERVK.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed MELT VCF-file with HERVK-insertion |
{sample}/mobile_elements/{sample}.melt_LINE1.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed MELT VCF-file with LINE1-insertion |
{sample}/mobile_elements/{sample}.melt_SVA.vcf.gz | vcf.gz  | Compressed MELT VCF-file with SVA-insertion |
{sample}/peddy/peddy.html | html  | Peddy results visualised to be open in browser |
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_charts.pdf | pdf | SMNCopyNumberCaller charts visualising the CN calls and read depth|
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_caller.tsv | tsv | SMNCopyNumberCaller results |
{sample}/SMNCopyNumberCaller/{sample}.smn_caller.json | json | SMNCopyNumberCaller results containing additional information not found in the SMNCopyNumberCaller tsv results   |


## MultiQC report
Poirot produces a **[MultiQC](https://github.com/ewels/MultiQC)**-report for the entire sequencing run to enable easier QC tracking. The report starts with a general statistics table showing the most important QC-values followed by additional QC data and diagrams. The entire MultiQC html-file is interactive and you can filter, highlight, hide or export data using the ToolBox at the right edge of the report.

<br />

The report is configured based on a MultiQC config file. 

/// details | Expand to view current MultiQC config.yaml
```yaml
{% include "includes/multiqc_config.yaml" %}
```
///

The report contain qc information derived from the following programs:



### General Statistics
The general statistics table are ordered based on the sample order in Illumina `SampleSheet.csv` file used during sequencing, this is done by renaming the samples in two steps using the script `extract_samples_info.py`. To toggle between "Sample Order" and "Sample Name" use the buttons just above General Stats header.


<br />

| Column Name | Origin | Comment | 
| --- | --- | --- |
| M Reads | [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html)  | Total number of reads in the input nam fole |
| % Mapped| [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | Percent reads mapped, anywhere in the reference (no design file used) |
| % Proper pairs| [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | |
| Average Quality | [Samtools stats](http://www.htslib.org/doc/samtools-stats.html) | Ratio between sum of base quality over total length. Only reads on target (`config[reference][design_bed]`) |
| Median | [Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Median Coverage over coding exon in design (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) |
| >= 30X | [Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Fraction of coding exons (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) with coverage over 30x |
| >=50X |[Mosdepth](https://github.com/brentp/mosdepth) | Fraction of coding exons (`config[reference][exon_bed]`) with coverage over 50x |
| Bases on Target | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | Bases inside the capture design (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) |
| Fold80 |[Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | The fold over-coverage necessary to raise 80% of bases in "non-zero-cvg" targets to the mean coverage level in those targets (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) |
| % Dups | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) DuplicationMetrics |  |
| Mean Insert Size | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) InsertSizeMetrics |  |
| Target Bases with zero coverage [%] | [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/) HSMetrics | Percent target (`config[reference][design_intervals]`) bases with 0 coverage |



## Coverage analysis
 It is important to know that the information is actually there when trying to draw clinically relevant conclusions from the data. This is done by a gene coverage analysis which results in an excel file with a tab for each gene panel that is of interest, 

### Example of some data from tabs in {sample_id}.coverage_analysis.xlsx
#### Overview
{sample_id}					
Bed-file from UCSC: refseq_select_mane_20230828.bed					

<br />
Processing date: January 05, 2025					

<br />
Created by: 				Valid from: 	
Signed by: 				Document nr: 	

<br />
DNAnr	Avg. coverage (x)	Duplicationlevel ()%)	10x (%)	20x (%)	30x (%)

{sample_id}	60.07	3.6	99.6	98.8	94.8
                    
<br />
Number of regions not covered by at least 10x: 					
1177					

<br />
Sheets:					
Positions with coverage lower than 10x					
Average coverage of all regions in bed					
BRCA

CADASIL

EBS

EDS					

#### Positions with coverage lower than 10x
Mosdepth coverage analysis				
                
<br />
Sample: {sample_id}				

<br />
Gene regions with coverage lower than 10x.				
Region Name	Chr	Start	Stop	Mean Coverage

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69438	69439	10

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69439	69441	9

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69441	69442	8

OR4F5_NM_001005484.2_[3]	chr1	69442	69444	7

#### Average coverage of all regions in bed
Average coverage and coverage breadth per gene					

<br />
Sample: {sample_id}					

<br />
Averge coverage and coverage breadth of each gene in exon-bedfile					
Gene	Transcript	Avg coverage	10x	20x	30x

A1BG	NM_130786.4	40,6	100	96,6	80,7

A1CF	NM_014576.4	59,28	100	100	97,6

A2M	    NM_000014.6	62,82	100	100	99,7

A2ML1	NM_144670.6	50,66	100	100	98,8

A3GALT2	NM_001080438.1	35,55	100	100	78,4

#### EBS
Coverage analysis per gene for EBS gene panel					

<br />
Sample: {sample_id}					

<br />
Average coverage and coverage breadth of genes in EBS gene panel.					
Gene	Transcript	Avg coverage	10x	20x	30x

CAST	NM_001750.7	63,2	100	100	99,6

CD151	NM_004357.5	43,89	100	100	98,2

<br />
Regions of exons that are covered below 10x.					
Gene name_transcript_exon	Chr	Start	Stop	Coverage (x)	
COL7A1_NM_000094.4_[109]	chr3	48567605	48567606	10	

<br />
