docs/softwares.md, before:

# Rules specific to Poirot

## bcftools_split_vep
Introduction to bcftools_split_vep

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__bcftools__bcftools_split_vep#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__bcftools__bcftools_split_vep#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__bcftools_split_vep#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__bcftools_split_vep#

---

## create_cov_excel
Introduction to create_cov_excel

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__coverage__create_cov_excel#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files


---

## deepvariant_add_ref
Introduction to deepvariant_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__deepvariant_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__deepvariant_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__deepvariant_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__deepvariant_add_ref#

---

## fix_sv_header
Introduction to fix_sv_header

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__fix_sv_header__fix_sv_header#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__fix_sv_header__fix_sv_header#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__fix_sv_header#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__fix_sv_header#

---

## svdb_add_ref
Introduction to svdb_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__svdb_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__svdb_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__svdb_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__svdb_add_ref#

---

## tiddit_add_ref
Introduction to tiddit_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__tiddit_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__tiddit_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__tiddit_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__tiddit_add_ref#

---

## vcf_to_aed
Introduction to vcf_to_aed

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed#

---

## vcf_to_aed_filtered
Introduction to vcf_to_aed

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

---

Commit message:

fix: fix mitochondrial mutect2 GT fields that have missing alleles and splitting multiallelic sites

docs/softwares.md, after:

# Rules specific to Poirot

## bcftools_split_vep
Introduction to bcftools_split_vep

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__bcftools__bcftools_split_vep#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__bcftools__bcftools_split_vep#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__bcftools_split_vep#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__bcftools_split_vep#

---

## create_cov_excel
Introduction to create_cov_excel

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__coverage__create_cov_excel#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files


---

## deepvariant_add_ref
Introduction to deepvariant_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__deepvariant_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__deepvariant_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__deepvariant_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__deepvariant_add_ref#

---

---

## [fix_mt_gt]
A script that postprocesses the GATK mitochondrial mutect2 VCF that has been run througj . It looks
for GT fielsd that have more than two entries (e.g. '0/././1, or '0/1/./.' etc)
and converts them to '0/1' as some tools can not parse the vcf when the 
GT field has missing alleles and is > 2.

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__fix_mt_gt__fix_mt_gt#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__fix_mt_gt__fix_mt_gt#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__fix_mt_gt#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__fix_mt_gt#

---

## fix_sv_header
Introduction to fix_sv_header

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__fix_sv_header__fix_sv_header#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__fix_sv_header__fix_sv_header#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__fix_sv_header#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__fix_sv_header#

---

## svdb_add_ref
Introduction to svdb_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__svdb_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__svdb_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__svdb_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__svdb_add_ref#

---

## tiddit_add_ref
Introduction to tiddit_add_ref

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__add_ref_to_vcf__tiddit_add_ref#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__add_ref_to_vcf__tiddit_add_ref#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__tiddit_add_ref#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__tiddit_add_ref#

---

## vcf_to_aed
Introduction to vcf_to_aed

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed#

---

## vcf_to_aed_filtered
Introduction to vcf_to_aed

### :snake: Rule

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_SOURCE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

#### :left_right_arrow: input / output files

#SNAKEMAKE_RULE_TABLE__vcf_to_aed__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

### :wrench: Configuration

#### Software settings (`config.yaml`)

#CONFIGSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed_filtered#

#### Resources settings (`resources.yaml`)

#RESOURCESSCHEMA__vcf_to_aed_filtered#
